Israel says it has eliminated what it
calls a terrorist cell in an air strike
on the balata refugee camp in the
occupied West Bank this footage released
by the Israeli military shows the attack
which targeted a car moving through the
camp in the city of nablas amateur
footage posted on social media shows the
vehicle on fire Israel says the leader
of a Palestinian Terror network was
inside the car it claims the group was
planning an imminent terrorist attack
meanwhile Qatar says it has brokered a
deal between Israel and Hamas for the
delivery of humanitarian Aid and
medication to civilians inside Gaza now
this would include Israelis who are
being held captive by Hamas which is
considered a terrorist organization by
many countries the first supplies are
expected to start arriving in Gaza today
and we can get more from Shaina low who
is from the nor Norwegian Refugee
Council which operates in Gaza and
chaina joins us now from Jerusalem
Shaina tell us how much of a difference
this deal might make for Palestinians in
Gaza well any amount of humanitarian Aid
any increase in humanitarian Aid is
needed the however I think that the
scope of what of the of the needs in
Gaza people are in need of food shelter
clean water medications medical supplies
the same things we've been demanding for
the last three months uh we need a a
huge increase a major scaling up of Aid
in order to really make a dent uh in the
in the tremendous needs th the there are
two things about this deal that I think
are important to note the first is that
we really need to to not be linking
humanitarian Aid to political agreements
Israel as the occupying power has a
responsibility to to provide the
Necessities for for sustaining life for
survival in Gaza and we we shouldn't be
tying these
uh the provision of assistance to to
innocent civilians 2.3 million innocent
civilians who have nothing to do with
this conflict other than being trapped
there uh on on political deals and
negotiations Aid should have unfettered
access into Gaza and that brings me to
the second point which is that it's not
just about getting the aid into Gaza but
it's also about getting Aid to all areas
of Gaza where it's so desperately needed
including Northern Gaza where the UN has
only been able to deliver about a
quarter or only had approval of about a
quarter of the the um convoys to the
north in the last two weeks that they
have asked to coordinate with the
israelies as you say the need is huge
tell us what kind of Aid what kind of
medication is most needed
now everything is needed in terms of
medication and medical supplies uh we
need medications to treat chronic
disease and illness people who are in
need of dialysis and have kidney failure
people with diabetes all of those
medications are in short supply and
desperately needed on top of that we
can't forget that there are still
ongoing hostilities ongoing air strikes
ongoing ground operations inside the
Gaza Strip and so we need uh medical
supplies to treat those who are wounded
we need medical uh anesthesia so that
people can can undergo surgery um with
painkillers many people uh both injured
and Pregnant going through C-sections
have been have been going through
surgery with without anesthesia over the
last 2 three months uh so so really all
medications all medical supplies are in
short supply in Gaza and we need and and
are needed throughout the entire Gaza
Strip sha can I ask you as you as you
mentioned there is ongoing Israeli
bombardment how does your organization
manage to provide help to people in Gaza
in these
conditions it is extremely challenging
and it's not just about the bombardments
it's also that we've been under
Communications black back out with Gaza
and had very minimal contact with our
staff since Friday of last week it's now
the fifth day since this blackout began
that that we've had limited connectivity
so between ongoing uh hostilities and
and and difficulties in communicating
and coordinating a response it's very
difficult to reach those in need at NRC
at the Norwegian Refugee Council we've
had to limit our uh assistance really to
Southern Gaza to the Rafa area where
over a million people have sought uh
Refuge or are there and living and
seeking Refuge but it's it's incredibly
difficult to to really have a a
concerted humanitarian response uh in
Gaza under such conditions and and
particularly to reach those uh areas
north of w Gaza in in Gaza City and and
the northern Gaza Strip Shaina loow from
the Norwegian Refugee Council Shaya
thanks so much for your
time thank
you special correspondent AIA Ibrahim
has more on what it means for the
Israeli
hostages now it's been over a 100 days
of captivity they've also had no access
to uh the Red Cross has not had any
access to them uh during their time of
captivity um to check on their uh
medical State and to give their families
you know a more clear picture about
what's going on with uh their loved ones
um this issue of the Red Cross has also
been very cont contentious here in
Israel with many criticizing the Red
Cross for not um you know well enough
fulfilling its uh duty to uh check on uh
captive regardless of the conflict as
the Red Cross is a neutral party in in
in conflict and so this news um I
imagine will be very very welcome uh by
hostage families who've been worried
sick about their loved ones since they
uh have uh been taken and they need this
medicine of course the hostage we heard
one hostage grandson say that this is
this is medication that they should have
had from day
one